Governance improvements (#24)
slsa-framework/governance: 5._Governance.md

The SLSA Project described in this document is the "Working Group" for purposes of the [Community Specification License 1.0](./1._Community_Specification_License-v1.md).

> The SLSA Project is comprised of multiple "Work Streams." These Work Streams represent different tracks of specification work or tools implementation. Work Streams are not strictly tied to unique repositories in the slsa-framework GitHub organization. 

Reviewer: nit/optional: can we use "workstream" instead of "work stream"

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/workstream

Reviewer 2: Hah, Michael and I discussed this. It seems like "workstream" is more from the tech industry while "work stream" is grammatically correct. I don't have a strong opinion though :)

Reviewer 3: > Hah, Michael and I discussed this. It seems like "workstream" is more from the tech industry while "work stream" is grammatically correct.

Aren't we part of the tech industry? :-) I prefer workstream.

## 1. Roles.

The Project includes the following roles. Additional roles may be adopted and documented by the Steering Committee.

> **1.1. Participants.** "Participants" are those that have contributed to or participated in the SLSA community, such as by attending meetings, engaging in conversations on Slack, or commenting on documents.

Reviewer: What's the motivation for removing the 'Community Specification License'?

Reviewer 2: We thought the current governance, where the Participant requirement could be met with any of these three, was overly precise. (a) or (b) meet the requirements for Contributor, and of course a Contributor is a Participant as well.

Author: The Community Specification License defined Contributor focused only on work for a specification. For SLSA we wanted something a bit broader that allowed for tooling development work to count as well. For reference here's the referenced definition that we replaced with our more explicit and inclusive text.

9.4. Contributor. “Contributor” means any person or entity that has indicated its acceptance of the License 1) by making a Contribution to the Specification, or 2) by entering into the Community Specification Contributor License Agreement for the Specification. Contributor includes its Affiliates, assigns, agents, and successors in interest.

**1.2. Contributors.** "Contributors" are those Participants that have (a) made Contributions to the Project and/or (b) contributed code or documentation to Project assets other than specifications. E.g. creating a PR, reviewing a PR, and editing a specification in a document.

> **1.3. Maintainers.** "Maintainers" are responsible for reviewing and merging all proposed changes, and they guide the overall technical direction of a Work Stream within the guidelines established by the Steering Committee. Each Work Stream will record its Maintainers in a Maintainers.md file in the appropriate repositories + path locations.

Reviewer: I think the file is usually/always capitalized?

```suggestion
**1.3. Maintainers.** "Maintainers" are responsible for reviewing and merging all proposed changes, and they guide the overall technical direction of a Work Stream within the guidelines established by the Steering Committee. Each Work Stream will record its Maintainers in a MAINTAINERS.md file in the appropriate repositories + path locations.
```

Maintainers may be removed by explicit resignation, for prolonged inactivity (e.g. 3 or more months with no review comments), for some infraction of the code of conduct, or by consistently demonstrating poor judgment. A proposed removal also requires a majority approval. A Maintainer removed for inactivity may be restored following a sustained resumption of contributions and reviews (a month or more) demonstrating a renewed commitment to the project.

<!-- Note: The above text was copied with modification from https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/main/docs/source/CONTRIBUTING.rst -->

**1.4. Steering Committee Members.** The "Steering Committee" is the body that is responsible for overseeing the overall activities of the Project. The Steering Committee consists of 5 Participants (each, a "Steering Committee Member") and will initially consist of the Steering Committee Members so designated as of the date of initial adoption of this SLSA Governance Policy. The Steering Committee will meet regularly as needed, but no less then once per quarter. Examples of the responsibilities of the Steering Committee include:

* enabling the smooth running of the Project

> * collectively reviewing and revising the Project mission, vision, strategy, and roadmap on a biannual basis

Reviewer 4: nit: "biannual" can be interpreted as twice a year or every two years. Can we replace with less ambiguous language?

> * collectively reviewing and revising the Project mission, vision, strategy, and roadmap on a biannual basis

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* collectively reviewing and revising the Project mission, vision, strategy, and roadmap every 6 months or more frequently if needed
```

* publishing quarterly updates suitable for OpenSSF TAC and other working groups' consumption
* participating in strategic planning, such as coordinating face-to-face meetings or suggesting and approving changes to the governance model
* managing the lifecycle of existing and proposed Work Streams within the Project with the consensus input from the community of Participants
* creating or restructuring Work Streams
* responding to specific issues or concerns above and beyond the domain of the various workstreams
* making decisions when community consensus cannot be reached, pursuant to the appeal process documented below

> * holding Maintainers accountable to the standards of what makes SLSA an effective Project and representative of a diverse community of Participants and Contributors. In the extreme event that a majority of existing Maintainers are unavailable to approve additions or removals for an extended period of time, the Steering Committee may add or remove Maintainers to bring the Project back to a functioning state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* holding Maintainers accountable to the standards of what makes SLSA an effective Project and representative of a diverse community of Participants and Contributors. In the extreme event that a majority of existing Maintainers are unavailable to approve additions or removals for an extended period of time, the Steering Committee may add or remove Maintainers to bring the Project back to a functioning state
* administration of slsa-framework GitHub organization, including maintaining team memberships for Maintainers, setting security defaults such as branch protection for the organization, managing secrets, etc.
```

> **1.5. Steering Committee Member Terms.** Steering Committee Members have a one year term.

Reviewer: Does this set us up for all the seats expiring at one time and then there's no steering committee members?

Perhaps the old language had that problem too?

Reviewer 2: We propose to not stagger elections like in the current governance since that adds more overhead. To your point, we should note that nominations & elections should occur before the term is up, maybe a month in advance to give enough time.

Reviewer 2: Added a line about starting this one month in advance.

Author: Technically it is possible for all current members to "expire" and for none of them to self-nominate to serve again. However, this is not meaningfully different than if we had a 2 year term and someone basically walked away for whatever reason. This is simple enough and it is reasonable that SC members will serve multiple terms in succession or naturally find their replacements. In the event that literally nobody is nominated (or self-nominates) for the role then the project larger issues.

> At the expiration of a Steering Committee Member term, any Participant may submit a nomination to fill the seat. An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed through an extraordinary vote by current Participants.

Reviewer 3: "Steering Committee Members may be removed through an extraordinary vote by current Participants."

I think that's a totally reasonable provision to have but note that this very much sounds like a setup for a "coup", something people took offense with when I suggested we might need to resort to in order to refresh the current defunct SC. :-)

Reviewer 2: This was meant for forced removal if a member is inactive. To remove this concern of a "coup", we could define inactive as a fixed period of time (6 months maybe? Also need to account for members who may go on personal leaves. We could state that an SC member should appoint a temporary member if on leave for more than 6 months). If an SC member is inactive for more than that period, then they are presumed resigned and a vote is held.

Reviewer: If we leave this in I think it needs a clear definition.  Is it just a simple majority?  How are the total number of participants measured?

I think defining the rules under which this happens can address this concern, but it also seems hard to address all the details well.  Might be easier to leave this out and let the TAC handle issues like this if necessary.

Reviewer 3: I think defining clear criteria would go a long way but indeed leaving it to the TAC might be simpler.

We cannot have an elected member designate a proxy that hasn't been elected. This would violate the basic principles that the SC is composed of elected members. We could allow for a member to designate another delegate as their proxy if deemed necessary but I'm not sure it is.

I suggest to try to keep this as simple as possible. If we try to address every possible edge case we might encounter one day it's going to become very heavy.

Reviewer 5: Agree on not letting delegates because the SC members should be very familiar with the project.

Reviewer 2: Added a change that removal is extraordinary and should involve the TAC.

> At the expiration of a Steering Committee Member term, any Participant may submit a nomination to fill the seat. An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed through an extraordinary vote by current Participants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At least one month before the expiration of a Steering Committee Member term, any Participant may submit a nomination to fill the seat. An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.
```

**2.3. Steering Committee Appeal Process.** Decisions that have been appealed to the Maintainers may in extraordinary cases be appealed to the Steering Committee for reconsideration. An appeal to the Steering Committee must specify in detail (1) the specific decision that is being appealed; (2) the basis for contending that the decision was not aligned with the purposes, goals or scope of the Project; and (3) an explanation of why the decision is extraordinary enough to warrant an appeal to the Steering Committee. The appeal will be considered by the Steering Committee in good faith, who will respond in writing within a reasonable time. The Steering Committee may decline to consider appeals that are unexceptional, unfounded or excessive, including because of their repetitive character.

**2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

## 3. Ways of Working.

> 

Reviewer 2: I cant leave suggestions at the bottom of the doc, but here's a sixth section on GitHub layout. Maybe we put this in another doc rather than Governance, but I would like this somewhere to make sure we all agree on it going forward.

```
## 6. slsa-framework GitHub organization layout

* Team defined for the Steering Committee, e.g. slsa-sc-members. This team is given "admin" permissions over the organization and all of its repositories
* Each Workstream defines a team for Maintainers, e.g slsa-build-track-spec-maintainers, slsa-build-tooling-maintainers. Each team is given a "maintain" permission for the repository.
* For a repository with multiple Workstreams, a CODEOWNER file should include a line for each folder or file mapped to a Workstream team. The repository settings should mandate CODEOWNER approval before merge.
* A Workstream may define a GitHub team for code reviewers, e.g. slsa-build-tooling-reviewers. This team must contain only Contributors who have demonstrated knowledge of the codebase. This team is given "write" permission for a repository.
* The Steering Committee will create branch protection rules per repository for the "main" branch to prevent direct pushes. Additionally, the rules must mandate that only teams with "maintain" permissions can merge changes. This means that those with "write" can only review and approve changes, but those with "maintain" can merge as well.
* For all teams except the Steering Committee team, those added to the team should be a "member", not an "owner". "owners" can change who is in a team.
* Team memberships should be updated as Maintainers and Steering Committee member resign or are added
* All team membership updates should be transparently recorded on GitHub issues 
* The organization should only contain memberships for Contributors, Maintainers and Steering Committee members, and only if those members are in GitHub teams
```

The SLSA Project described in this document is the "Working Group" for purposes of the [Community Specification License 1.0](./1._Community_Specification_License-v1.md).

The SLSA Project is comprised of multiple "Workstreams." These Workstreams represent different tracks of specification work or tools implementation. Workstreams are not strictly tied to unique repositories in the slsa-framework GitHub organization. 

## 1. Roles.

The Project includes the following roles. Additional roles may be adopted and documented by the Steering Committee.

**1.1. Participants.** "Participants" are those that have contributed to or participated in the SLSA community, such as by attending meetings, engaging in conversations on Slack, or commenting on documents.

> **1.2. Contributors.** "Contributors" are those Participants that have (a) made Contributions to the Project and/or (b) contributed code or documentation to Project assets other than specifications. E.g. creating a PR, reviewing a PR, and editing a specification in a document.

Reviewer 6: I find "other than specifications" confusing, even in the original context. I think it's there because a covers the spec, but I think the distinction does more harm than good.

> **1.2. Contributors.** "Contributors" are those Participants that have (a) made Contributions to the Project and/or (b) contributed code or documentation to Project assets other than specifications. E.g. creating a PR, reviewing a PR, and editing a specification in a document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**1.2. Contributors.** "Contributors" are those Participants that have (a) made Contributions to the Project (E.g. specification changes) and/or (b) contributed code or documentation to Project assets. E.g. creating a PR, reviewing a PR, and editing a specification in a document.
```

> **1.2. Contributors.** "Contributors" are those Participants that have (a) made Contributions to the Project and/or (b) contributed code or documentation to Project assets other than specifications. E.g. creating a PR, reviewing a PR, and editing a specification in a document.

Reviewer 2: I've clarified this now.

**1.3. Maintainers.** "Maintainers" are responsible for reviewing and merging all proposed changes, and they guide the overall technical direction of a Workstream within the guidelines established by the Steering Committee. Each Workstream will record its Maintainers in a MAINTAINERS.md file in the appropriate repositories + path locations.

Maintainers may be added through majority approval of existing Maintainers, based on the following criteria:

*   Demonstrated track record of PR reviews (both quality and quantity of reviews)
*   Demonstrated thought leadership in the project
*   Demonstrated shepherding of project work and contributors

> Maintainers may be removed by explicit resignation, for prolonged inactivity (e.g. 3 or more months with no review comments), for some infraction of the code of conduct, or by consistently demonstrating poor judgment. A proposed removal also requires a majority approval. A Maintainer removed for inactivity may be restored following a sustained resumption of contributions and reviews (a month or more) demonstrating a renewed commitment to the project.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Maintainers may be removed by explicit resignation, for prolonged inactivity (e.g. 3 or more months with no review comments), for some infraction of the code of conduct, or for consistently demonstrating poor judgment. A proposed removal also requires a majority approval. A Maintainer removed for inactivity may be restored following a sustained resumption of contributions and reviews (a month or more) demonstrating a renewed commitment to the project.
```

<!-- Note: The above text was copied with modification from https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/main/docs/source/CONTRIBUTING.rst -->

**1.4. Steering Committee Members.** The "Steering Committee" is the body that is responsible for overseeing the overall activities of the Project. The Steering Committee consists of 5 Participants (each, a "Steering Committee Member") and will initially consist of the Steering Committee Members so designated as of the date of initial adoption of this SLSA Governance Policy. The Steering Committee will meet regularly as needed, but no less then once per quarter. Examples of the responsibilities of the Steering Committee include:

> * enabling the smooth running of the Project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* enabling the smooth running of the Project
* active participation within the community
```

* holding Maintainers accountable to the standards of what makes SLSA an effective Project and representative of a diverse community of Participants and Contributors. In the extreme event that a majority of existing Maintainers are unavailable to approve additions or removals for an extended period of time, the Steering Committee may add or remove Maintainers to bring the Project back to a functioning state
* administration of slsa-framework GitHub organization, including maintaining team memberships for Maintainers, setting security defaults such as branch protection for the organization, managing secrets, etc.

**1.5. Steering Committee Member Terms.** Steering Committee Members have a one year term.
One month before the expiration of a Steering Committee Member term, any Participant may submit a nomination to fill the seat. A Participant must include the following documentation in their nomination:

* Statement of intent to perform the duties of a Steering Committee Member during the next term
* Evidence of active participation in the community and being well-versed in SLSA
* Affiliation / employer

> An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.

Reviewer 8: > inactive

is this defined formally anywhere?

Reviewer 5: So, we had talked previously around having the steering committee maybe having their own meeting but we found that those meetings don't really address anything that isn't in the spec meeting so I think the idea here should be the same rules as participation with some time limit, e.g. expectations that they are participating in some capacity monthly?

Reviewer 2: If we define inactivity as not performing the duties as stated in 1.4, do you think that is sufficient? To address not being present in meetings, we could add a duty of "active participation in weekly community meetings"? 

I'm hesitant to say monthly or any time period to avoid being able to game this, e.g. show up exactly once a month.

Reviewer 9: Agree: it's hard to be there for all the meetings, and maybe some folks are more active in PRs (which I think matter more) than meetings.

Reviewer 2: How about phrasing this as "active participation with the community"? I recognize that the meeting might not work for all timezones, but I think there are still ways to be an active leader in the community - regular interactions over issues and Slack, leaving comments on the community meeting doc, outreach at conferences, etc.

Activity on PRs can be one component of active participation, but not the only component in my opinion, as that would be more of a Maintainer.

Reviewer 9: As long as the OSSF TAC can use the new phrasing for fair adjudication, sounds reasonable to me.

Reviewer 6: I prefer the phrasing "active participation with the community" over active meeting attendance. "active participation" is harder to measure, but I think more generous in allowing a range of contributions to be recognised. Thanks.

Reviewer 2: I've added "active participation within the community" as a duty in 1.4 and noted that inactivity is not performing the duties as listed in 1.4

> An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.

Reviewer 9: I think "any number of successive terms" is a bit problematic. Could we limit to, say, 4 years (like a presidential term) and go from there?

Reviewer 2: We do encourage stepping down if you're a longstanding member.

If there is someone who is an exceptional SLSA leader and continually voted in by the community, is that a problem?

> An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive, by not performing the duties as stated in 1.4. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.
```

* Statement of intent to perform the duties of a Steering Committee Member during the next term
* Evidence of active participation in the community and being well-versed in SLSA
* Affiliation / employer

If a Steering Committee Member resigns or ceases to participate for a significant period of time prior to the end of their term, the remaining Steering Committee Members may choose to remove that Steering Committee Member. If so, the remaining Steering Committee Members will determine whether and when to fill the role.
An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.

The Steering Committee may add additional Steering Committee Members as it deems necessary.
Nominations and decisions must be publicly recorded, e.g. on GitHub issues or Slack, for transparency.

> After discussion with the nominees for a vacant seat, the Steering Committee will select the new Steering Committee Members from the group of nominees taking into account such things as the nominees’ willingness to take on the role, skills, and level of participation as well as the need to maintain a balanced perspective on the Steering Committee (e.g., no more than two people from the same group of related companies should be on the Steering Committee). A Steering Committee Member nominee may not deliberate or vote on their own appointment.

Reviewer 9: Why remove the bit about not voting for self? Well, I guess going by presidential elections...

Reviewer 2: In the context of this paragraph, not voting for yourself as important because it was only the steering committee who elects its own members. I don't see an issue with voting for yourself along with the other 4 members given it will be the whole SLSA community voting. (FWIW, this line was not intentionally removed, it was a part of removing the entire paragraph)

> **2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

Reviewer 9: Why 4/5 and not 3/5?

Reviewer 2: If I recall correctly, we were going with super majority, following the two-thirds requirement. 3 is simple majority, 5 is complete consensus, so 4 felt like a good compromise. @michaelwinser do you remember anything else?

Reviewer 5: My only concern right now is if we have a similar situation as before and someone steps down or is removed by being a steering committee member do we then need unanimous consent for any governance changes? Can we do something like >= 2/3 of steering committee members? That then allows for 3/4 if someone leaves.

Reviewer 2: If someone steps down or is removed, should we instead fill their position before any further governance changes?

Reviewer 2: @michaelwinser Good with the change to say 2/3, so if someone is absent, governance rules can still change?

Reviewer 2: To come back to this, https://github.com/slsa-framework/governance/pull/24#issuecomment-2593685851 summarizes my thoughts. I'd like to stick with 4-out-of-5 with an added explicit requirement that we fill the missing seat before making more governance changes.

> **2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

Reviewer 2: Fair question - @michaelwinser what do you think about changing this to explicitly say the LF can override any changes if necessary? I think that is more what is meant here - the project can self-govern, but the LF has authority to override.

> **2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

Reviewer 2: Given this was already present, I'd like to not remove this.

> **2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

Reviewer 5: The TAC already has governance around this. The TAC provides oversight for governance changes for all projects and groups.

> **2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

Reviewer 2: To confirm, are you good with leaving this as-is?

> **2.4. Amendments to Governance Documents.** The documents in this Governance repository may be amended by four of the five Steering Committee Members and are subject to approval by The Linux Foundation. However, entries may be added to the Notices file in this Governance repository as described therein.

Reviewer 5: So yes, I'm good with leaving this as is, and also separately think two-third vote instead of specifically calling out four out of five.

* publishing quarterly updates suitable for OpenSSF TAC and other working groups' consumption
* participating in strategic planning, such as coordinating face-to-face meetings or suggesting and approving changes to the governance model
* managing the lifecycle of existing and proposed Workstreams within the Project with the consensus input from the community of Participants
* creating or restructuring Workstreams
* responding to specific issues or concerns above and beyond the domain of the various workstreams
* making decisions when community consensus cannot be reached, pursuant to the appeal process documented below
* holding Maintainers accountable to the standards of what makes SLSA an effective Project and representative of a diverse community of Participants and Contributors. In the extreme event that a majority of existing Maintainers are unavailable to approve additions or removals for an extended period of time, the Steering Committee may add or remove Maintainers to bring the Project back to a functioning state

> * administration of slsa-framework GitHub organization, including maintaining team memberships for Maintainers, setting security defaults such as branch protection for the organization, managing secrets, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* administration of slsa-framework GitHub organization, including maintaining team memberships for Maintainers, setting security defaults such as branch protection for the organization, managing secrets, etc.

The Steering Committee will be comprised of Members from a diverse set of affiliations. An affiliation must not be represented more than once on the Steering Committee. If affiliation changes during a Steering Committee Member's term which would cause overrepresentation, a Steering Committee Member from that affiliation must resign.
```

**1.5. Steering Committee Member Terms.** Steering Committee Members have a one year term.
One month before the expiration of a Steering Committee Member term, any Participant may submit a nomination to fill the seat. A Participant must include the following documentation in their nomination:

* Statement of intent to perform the duties of a Steering Committee Member during the next term
* Evidence of active participation in the community and being well-versed in SLSA

> * Affiliation / employer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Affiliation / employer

The nomination period should last two weeks. After the nomination period, the voting period should begin and last one week. The Steering Committee Members will then tally the votes and announce the new Steering Committee Members.
```

> An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive, by not performing the duties as stated in 1.4. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An individual may be nominated for and serve any number of successive terms. However, Steering Committee Members are encouraged to allow other longstanding Participants to contribute as Steering Committee Members. Steering Committee Members are elected by current Participants. Steering Committee Members must resign if they become inactive, by not performing the duties as stated in 1.4. Steering Committee Members may be removed in extraordinary circumstances with an escalation to the OpenSSF TAC.

When a Steering Committee Member resigns or is removed, an election must be held to replace the Member, following the procedure for nominations and elections as discussed above.
```

* administration of slsa-framework GitHub organization, including maintaining team memberships for Maintainers, setting security defaults such as branch protection for the organization, managing secrets, etc.

The Steering Committee will be comprised of Members from a diverse set of affiliations. An affiliation must not be represented more than once on the Steering Committee. If affiliation changes during a Steering Committee Member's term which would cause overrepresentation, a Steering Committee Member from that affiliation must resign.

**1.5. Steering Committee Member Terms.** Steering Committee Members have a one year term.
One month before the expiration of a Steering Committee Member term, any Participant may submit a nomination to fill the seat. A Participant must include the following documentation in their nomination:

* Statement of intent to perform the duties of a Steering Committee Member during the next term
* Evidence of active participation in the community and being well-versed in SLSA
* Affiliation / employer

> The nomination period should last two weeks. After the nomination period, the voting period should begin and last one week. The Steering Committee Members will then tally the votes and announce the new Steering Committee Members.

Reviewer 6: Who gets to vote? Just the SC? SC + Maintainers? All project Participants?

Reviewer 2: Thanks Joshua, I added a line that Participants are eligible to vote. Since any Participant can self nominate, having that be the same eligibility for voting seems reasonable.

> The nomination period should last two weeks. After the nomination period, the voting period should begin and last one week. The Steering Committee Members will then tally the votes and announce the new Steering Committee Members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The nomination period should last two weeks. After the nomination period, the voting period should begin and last one week. Participants are eligible to vote for Steering Committee members. The Steering Committee Members will then tally the votes and announce the new Steering Committee Members.
```
